---
tags:
  - Journal
---
### Set clear, ambitious goals

- Goals give you direction and purpose. They help you focus on your effort and measure your progress
- Action
	- Take some time to reflect on what you want to achieve this year
	- Set both short-term and long-term goals.
	- Make sure they are SMART

### Reflect on the Past

- Understanding where you've been is crucial for knowing where you're going
- Action
	- Spend some time reflecting on 2024. What worked well? What didn't? What lesson did you learn? Use this reflection to inform your action in 2025

### Focus on Personal Growth

- Personal growth is the key to long-term success.
- It's not just about achieving external goals, but also about becoming a better version of yourself
- Action
	- Identify areas where you want to grow - whether it's your mindset, skills, health, or relationships
	- Create a plan to work on these areas consistency

### ==Prioritize Your Health==

- Your health is the foundation of everything else in your life. Without it, it's hard to achieve anything
- Action
	- Make a commitment to your physical and mental well-being
	- Exercising regularly
	- Eating a balanced diet
	- Getting enough sleep
	- Practicing mindfulness or mediation

### Build and Nurture Relationships

- Success is rarely alone. Strong relationships can provide support, oppoturnities, and joy
- Action
	- Invest time in building and maintaining relationships with family, friend, mentors, and collegues
	- Be intentional about connecting with people who inspire and uplift you

- iPhone
- iPad
- Elevate
- Balance
- Improve eyesight
- Finance management
- Cryptocurrency
- Brilliant
- IELTS
- ELSA Speak
- Prep
- Reading blog and book
	- To learn
	- To update information