---
tags:
  - Course
  - Graph
  - ML
  - Stanford
aliases:
  - Machine Learning with Graphs
URL: https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224w
---
# Introduction

Complex data can be represented as a graph of relationships between objects. Such networks are a fundamental tool for modeling social, technological, and biological systems. This course focuses on the computational, algorithmic, and modeling challenges specific to the analysis of massive graphs. By means of studying the underlying graph structure and its features, students are introduced to machine learning techniques and data mining tools apt to reveal insights on a variety of networks.
Topics include: representation learning and Graph Neural Networks; algorithms for the World Wide Web; reasoning over Knowledge Graphs; influence maximization; disease outbreak detection, social network analysis.

- This course is self-contained
- Use PyTorch Geometric

# 1. Introduction to [[Machine Learning]] for Graphs

- Graphs are a general language for describing and analyzing entities with relations or interactions
- There are many type of data are graphs
	- Computer Networks
	- Disease Pathways
	- Social Networks
	- Internet
	- ==Networks of Neurons==
	- ==Knowledge Graphs==
	- Molecules
	- 3D Shapes
	- ==Databases==

Complex domains have a rich relational structure, which can be represented as a relational graph

Q: How do we take advantage of relational structure for better prediction?

- Morden deep learning toolbox is designed for sequences & grids.

Q: How can we develop neural networks that are much more broadly applicable?
A: Graphs are the new frontier of deep learning

### Heterogeneous Graph

Choosing a proper representation

- How to build a graph
	- What are nodes
	- What are edges

Choice of the proper network representation of a given domain/problem determines our ability to use networks successfully:

Type of graphs

- Directed and undirected graph
- Bipartite graph

Types of Tasks

- Node-level
- Edge-level
- Community (subgraph) level
- graph level
# 2. Node embeddings
# 3. [[Graph Neural Networks]]
# 4. A General perspective on GNNs
# 5. GNN augmentation and training
# 6. Theory of GNNs
# 7. Designing powerful GNNs
# 8. [[Graph Transformer]]
# 9. Heterogenous graphs
# 10. Knowledge graphs
# 11. Reasoning over knowledge graph
# 12. GNNs for recommender systems
# 13. Relational Deep Learning
# 14. Advanced topics in GNNs
# 15. Towards Foundation Models for Knowledge Graphs
# 16.. Geometric [[Deep Learning]]
# 17. Deep Generative Models for Graphs
# 18. [[Large Language Model|LLM]] + [[Graph Neural Networks]]





















Complex data can be represented as a graph of relationships between object. Such networks are a fundamental tool for modeling social, technological and biological systems.

Focus on the computational algorithmic, and modeling challenges specific to the analysis of massive graphs.
By means of studying the underlying graph structure and its features, students are introducted to machine learning techniques and data mining tools to reveal insights on a variety of network.

# Introduction

Graphs are a general language for describing and analyzing entities with relations and interactions.

Complex domains have a rich relational structure which can be represented as a relational graph.
The model ML toolbox process tensors, e.g. images (2D), text/speech (1D). Modern deep learning toolbox is designed for simple sequences and grids. Not everything can be represented as a sequence of a grid. How can we develop neural network that are much more broadly *applicable*? We can use graph. Graph connect things

- GNN is the 3rd most popular keyword in ICLR 22
- Graph learning is also very difficult due to *the complex and less structure nature of graph*
- Graph learning is also associated with representation learning. In some case it may be possible to learn a d-dimensional embedding for each node in the graph such that similar nodes have closer embeddings.

A number of different tasks can be executed on graph data

- Node level prediction
- Edge/Link level prediciton
- Graph level prediction

# Graph

A graph has several components

- Objects N: Nodes, vertices
- Interaction E: Edges, links
- System G(N, E): Networks, graphs

There is a ubiquitous representation in a particular case. Some times there is not. The choice of representation determines what information can be mined from the graph. A graph may also have some other propeties:

- Undirected/Directed edges
- Allow/Disallow multi-graphs (multiple edges between nodes)
- Heterogeneous graphs: A graph G(V, E, R, T) where edges have relation types and nodes have types with relation types. ==Drug-protein interaction graph is heterogeneous==
- Bipartite graphs: Author-Paper graph, actors-films graph

Most real-world setworks are spare. The adjacency matrix is a spare matrix with mostly 0's

# Traditional Machine Learning on Graphs

Using effective 

## Node-Level Features

## Link-Level Features

## Graph Kernels

# Node Embeddings

## Random Walk Embeddings

## Embedding Entire Graphs

## Relations of Matrix Factorization

## Applications and Limitations

# Graph Neural Network

## Basic of Deep Learning

## Deep Learning for Graphs

## Graph Convolutional Networks

## GNNs subsume CNNs

# A General Perspective on Graph Neural Network

## A Single Layer of GNN

## GNN Layers in Practice

## Stacking GNN Layers

## Graph Manipulation in GNNs

# GNN Augmentation and Training

## Prediction with GNNs

## Training GNN

## Setup GNN Prediction

# Theory of Graph Neural Network

# Limits of Graph Neural Network

# Graph Transformers

# Machine Learning with Hetorogeneous Graphs

# Knowledge Graph Embeddings

# Reasoning in Knowledge Graphs

# Fast Neural Subgraph Matching and Counting

# GNNs for Recommender Systems

# Advanced Topics in Graph Neural Network

# Scaling Up GNNs

# Geometric Graphs Learning

# Trustworthy Graph AI

# Conclusion

# Resources

https://archives.leni.sh/stanford/CS224w.pdf

# [[Q&A]]

- What is graph kernel
- How to embedding node and edge and graph information?
- How to "connect" graph and transformers
- What is heterogeneous graphs